Hole 1:
The opening hole at Old Hawthorne embodies many of the attributes of the other holes throughout the golf course, a beautiful natural setting, a wide playing corridor and a variety of strategic options.  The mid-length par 4 plays from atop a large bluff, sharply downhill from the tees to a green nestled up to Grindstone Creek.  Players who are distracted by the beauty of the surroundings run the risk of missing the subtleties of the strategy here.  The wide, bunkerless fairway will require some attention if players want to set up their approach shot to the green.  The crowned fairway will direct shots left or right depending upon where the tee shot lands.  The hole location and the deep greenside bunker will help influence which part of the fairway players will want to play to.

Hole 2:
The 2nd hole is a longer par 3 playing through the valley along side Grindstone Creek.  This par 3, which plays to a length of 215 yards from the tournament tees, is level from tee to green.  A large meandering bunker guards the front left-hand portion of the green.  The green contours set up a variety of hole locations and give the player the option of trying to carry the bunker to get closer to left-hand pin positions or running a shot up onto the green to a variety of hole locations on the right-hand side.  The green is wrapped with fairway on three sides (front, back, and right) to create options of play for the player that has missed the green surface with their tee shot. 

Hole 3:
The 3rd hole is a neat, shorter par 4 playing 411 yards from the tournament tees.  The tees sit in the bottom of the valley with the landing area on top of a natural ridge coming in from the right-hand side.  A large intimidating bunker guards the left-hand side of the fairway and a smaller pot bunker up on top of the ridge splits the landing area into two halves.  The hole is a soft dogleg left and there is a lot of value in trying to carry into the left-hand portion of the fairway as it sets up a better angle of approach into the green and shortens the hole considerably.  The priority for the player off the tee though, needs to be getting their tee shot up on top of the ridge.  Balls that hit short on the slope quite possibly could roll back toward the tee, leaving the player with a longer, blind second shot over the ridge to the green.  At the green a large bunker guards the front right portion of the green and the fairway swings in from the left-hand side into the green.  The green itself is long and narrow and a large transition slope a third of the way into the green helps to create a variety of hole locations for the golfers.  This hole is about position and not so much about brute strength as the natural contours of the hole create quite a few options for the players.

Hole 4:
The fourth hole is a strong par 4 playing 440 yards from the tournament tees, generally uphill from tee to green.  Off the tee the players can only see the ridge that crosses the fairway just short of the landing area.  A well played shot should carry the ridge and give the player a little additional distance as it hits the down slope and bounces forward.  Short of the ridge the fairway moves hard from right to left and the creek that runs down the left-hand side of the fairway should give a player reason to pause and consider where they want their shot to end up off the tee.  Once over the ridge, the rest of the golf hole opens to a wonderful green setting nestled amongst a stand of trees with a small creek dancing across the front of the green. Players will be confronted with a decision on their second shot, depending on how well they have hit their tee shot, as to whether to go for the green, play short of the creek or play left of the green into a large fairway bailout area that shortens the carry over the creek but leaves them off the green with their third shot.  The large green has four or five distinct hole locations separated by some broad subtle rolls.  The strategy for the approach shot will be decidedly different from day to day based on the hole location on the green. 

Hole 5:
Upon leaving the fourth green, the players will come up a slight hill and through a strand of trees  opening up onto the fifth tee.  From here they will get their first look at the hole.  It is a short risk/reward par 4 that doglegs left around a large lake on the left-hand side of the hole.  The hole sits beautifully within a natural valley.  Two bunkers located out in the landing area create a variety of options for the player on this cape style hole.  Down the center line of the hole, it plays to a yardage of 393 yards from the tournament tees, but the strong dogleg actually gives players an opportunity to go for the green in one if they feel that they can carry the entire length of the pond with their tee shot.  For everyone else there are still two or three different ways in which the hole can be successfully navigated.  An aggressive play off the tee will bring the pot bunker in the middle of the fairway into play.  A more conservative play off the tee to the wide part of the fairway will leave a longer approach shot into the green, though still only a mid to short iron. The green surface itself is rather large and undulating with a strong ridge running into the center of the green from the back side, splitting the green into two halves.  The hole location on any given day will help dictate the strategy that players find most successful on this hole. 

Hole 6:
On a golf course with many gorgeous settings, the sixth hole could be the prettiest of all.  This is the longest hole on the golf course playing to a par 5 and a length of 662 yards from the tournament tees.  The tees sit on a high ridge with the player looking down through the first landing area, across a valley and up in to the second landing area set into another ridge that helps turn the hole softly from right to left.  The green rests next to a small pond.  It's a wonderful setting for a very challenging golf hole.  Players are given the opportunity to bomb away off the tee box as there is no real trouble in the landing area except for the longest hitters, who might need to keep in mind the creek that bisects the fairway.  From the first landing area the golf hole really starts to get interesting.  The longer the player hits it off the tee, the tougher the decision gets on the second shot, as the bunkers that are set in to the hillside on the left-hand side of the landing area come in to play.  The small pot bunker in the middle of the fairway at about the 537 yard mark off the tournament tee will be a key feature for players to consider as they decide whether to lay up, go over it trying to get as close to the green as possible, or play to either side of it.  The green is relatively small, but also relatively flat with very little contour within the surface.  The green sits hard against the ponds' edge on the left-hand side with some fairway bailout available on the right-hand side of the green.  The 6th hole is a true three shot par 5 that will require players to plan their shots and execute their plan if they are to be successful.

Hole 7:
Coming off the longest hole on the golf course, golfers will now encounter the longest par 3 on the course.  The 7th hole plays to a length of 258 yards from the tournament tees and will require everyone to hit their best tee shot here if they hope to make par.  There are no bunkers on this hole and no hazards are in play either, but the hole will still require the most out of every player.  The large green is set into a slight hillside which creates some support on the right and back side of the green.  Some slight undulations within the green help to define a variety of hole locations and there is plenty of fairway front and left of the green to allow players to run a shot up onto the green.

Hole 8:
The 8th hole at Old Hawthorne is a spectacular, strategic hole for all golfers.  Having just played the longest par 5 and longest par 3 on the course back to back, they will now encounter one of the shortest par 4's on the course.  This hole plays from elevated tee boxes at a yardage of 334 yards from the tournament tees.  This is a true risk/reward hole in which golfers have all sorts of options with their tee shot.  The green sits on the far side of Grindstone Creek with fairway available on both sides of the creek.  A combination of pot bunkers and a couple of large meandering bunkers along the creek help to define a variety of options a player has.  A conservative mid to short iron off the tee will still leave the players with a short iron or a wedge shot into the green.  More aggressive options of play, including the potential for driving the green are readily available.  It will require a most precise shot to hit the long narrow green that sits right on the edge of the creek.  A deep pot bunker on the left side of the green also needs to be considered.  The green itself has a strong contour running into the green surface and most of the green falls towards the creek so the player that bails out to the left of the green or over the green, must negotiate the slippery slope coming back to the hole location.  Overall the 8th hole should be one of the most fun and dynamic holes on the golf course as the golfers try and figure out how best to play the hole among the four or five potential options.

Hole 9:
The 9th hole truly embodies the spirit and character of Old Hawthorne.  It is a longer par 5 playing up along a minor draw to a green sitting at the top end of the draw.  The first landing area sits on a slight plateau elevated from the tees.  Players who can reach this plateau with their tee shot will now be confronted with a number of options for their second shot.  The main fairway of the golf hole continues up the right-hand side of the draw but at the second landing area an alternate fairway extends down from the green on the left hand side of the draw giving the players a split fairway for their second shot.  The green sits at the end of this deep draw and horseshoes around a small deep pot bunker.  Hole location on any given day will be critical in determining the direction a player takes with their second shot and their ensuing approach shot to the green.  While the left-hand fairway is narrower than the right-hand fairway, the right-hand fairway has three large bunkers positioned throughout it and players will have to decide which challenges they would prefer to encounter as they approach the green.  At 575 yards from the tournament tee and uphill all the way from tee to green, this hole will play as a three shot par 5 for most players.

Hole 10:
The back nine at Old Hawthorne begins with a relatively short but very challenging par 5.  The tee shot on this hole could be the most intimidating shot on the golf course.  It plays from an elevated tee down to a fairway that slopes hard from left to right, with the entire right-hand side of the fairway through the first landing area guarded by a large lake.  A well played tee shot can carry the ridge running across the fairway, giving the golfers a little added distance as their shot runs down the slope.  Once in the landing area they will encounter a number of options that they need to consider for their second shot.  The green sits on the far side of Grindstone Creek and there is fairway on both side of the creek.  A large tree also divides the fairway on the far side and some greenside and fairway bunkering further defines the players options.  The green is reachable in two but the orientation of the green and the contours within the surface will require a player to hit a precise second shot if they expect to have any hope of eagle or birdie.  Players not playing for the green in two still have three or four options with which to choose from in deciding whether or not to challenge the creek on their second shot or play across the creek with a short third shot to the well-protected green.  Like most of the holes on this course, hole 10 will require golfers to match their chosen strategy to their ability to execute that strategy.

Hole 11:
The 11th hole is a long par 4 that will require two well played shots for anyone hoping to make par.   The tee shot plays uphill to one of the widest landing areas on the golf course.  The landing area is deceptive though, as the view and angle of approach to the green is much better from one side of the landing area than the other.  The landing area is bisected by one pot bunker, creating a left and right option for the majority of players.  The right-hand fairway is slightly elevated, requiring a stronger tee shot.  The reward for finding this part of the fairway is a full view of the green and a good angle of approach.  The green is fronted by a single bunker and sits atop a small knob amongst a stand of trees.

Hole 12:
The 12th hole is a mid-length par 3 playing slightly uphill from tee to green.   The green is nicely framed by two sizable trees and fronted by a sharp slope with a trio of bunkers resting at the foot of the slope.  It's all carry for the players from tee to green.  The green is deep with a sharp transition slope midway into the green creating an upper rear portion of the green.  An additional bunker sits back left of the green.  If players can carry their tee shot up over the front slope, there is fairway to the right of the green helping to create a bigger target area and giving the players a few more choices adjacent to the green.

Hole 13:
The 13th hole is one of the longest par 4's on the golf course, playing to a length of 450 yards from the tournament tees.  It sits perfectly within the existing lay of the land.  The tees play from an elevated ridge down into a broad low.  The second shot is played from this low up to a green setting on top of the next ridge.  The location of the tee shot in the fairway will be of critical importance to the golfer if they want to see the green surface at all.  A couple of bunkers along the right-hand side of the fairway help to define the strategy off the tee, as a shot closer to the bunker will provide the player with more visibility to the green surface for their approach shot.  The green itself is somewhat of a bowl with balls feeding onto the green from the hill slope in front.  The green is completely ringed with fairway and is quite large in size.

Hole 14:
The 14th hole is a mid-length par 4 doglegging sharply right.  Three small bunkers are set into a natural ridge running through the landing area, creating two distinct options for players off the tee.  Playing into the lower right-hand fairway is risky, but shortens the hole substantially.  The upper left-hand fairway is large and accommodating, but the angle of approach will bring the greenside bunker into play, while also lengthening the hole.  As is the theme throughout the golf course, players are given options of play throughout.

Hole 15:
The 15th hole is the quintessential risk/reward hole on a golf course full of risk/reward opportunities and strategic options. The hole is a short par 5 listed at 525 yards from the back tees, though it will play substantially shorter on a direct line from tee to green.  The hole sits hard along the edge of Grindstone creek, which runs along the left-hand side of the entire hole.  A strong bend in the creek will come into play at the first landing area.  Tee shots played past this bend in the creek will create opportunities and options for the player as the green is now potentially reachable in two shots.  A second shot played directly at the green will need to carry all the way to the green surface as Grindstone Creek runs along the edge of the green.  For those players not going for the green in two, positioning their second shot will be important to set up an effective third shot into this smaller green.  While eagles and birdies are readily available here, bogeys and double bogeys are lurking if the player is not able to execute their chosen strategy.

Hole 16:
This is the shortest hole on the course and possibly the most unique.   A par 3 playing at 177 yards from the back tees, it has the largest green on the golf course.  The green sits between two forks of Grindstone Creek and measures at over 12,000 square feet.  There is quite a bit of waviness throughout the green surface creating a host of hole locations and some very interesting putts for players who do not manage to get their tee shot close to that day's hole location..  The hole can vary in length by up to 40 yards depending on the hole location.  The challenge with this hole will not be hitting this “island” green, but in getting the tee shot close enough to give the player a legitimate birdie putt.

Hole 17:
The 17th hole completes an excellent stretch of three straight birdie opportunity holes for the player as they complete their round.  After playing a short par 5 and a short par 3, golfers now face a short par 4 in which driving the green is a feasible option.  At 353 yards from the tournament tees and slightly downhill, this is a hole where golfers can be aggressive.  A gathering of bunkers throughout the landing area and near the green help to define a multitude of options for the players, but there is little other trouble on the golf hole.  With only one hole left on the course, this is a hole that players will tend to want to be assertive with.  The green is circled by fairway left, right and short.  The green is a small target, the smallest green on the golf course at just over 5,000 square feet.  It is a plateau green with no support and a relatively flat surface.  Golfers will tend to have short irons in their hands as they approach the green and will need to be exact with their shots to keep their approach shots on the green.  A deep bunker across the back of the green awaits those who can not hold the surface with their shot.

Hole 18:
Upon completing the 17th hole golfers will take a short path up a hill through the trees and open up behind the 18th tees to a dramatic vista on an incredibly unique golf hole.   The 18th hole is a medium length par 4 but plays all uphill from tee to green.  A group of bunkers are scattered throughout the golf hole and aid in defining two distinct options off the tee.  One option for the player is to play into the lower left fairway which is readily accessible and accommodating in size.  The approach to the green from this fairway could be rather challenging though and will be a blind shot.  The other option off the tee is to take a more aggressive line over the lake and bunkers to the elevated fairway.  Successfully hitting this narrower fairway will give the golfers a much better look at the hole and a more comfortable approach to the challenging green.  This is one of the larger greens on the course but it has some strong contour breaks throughout the surface, putting a premium on the approach shot to ensure that the golfer has a manageable putt for birdie or par to close out their round.